docs/docs/configuration/cameras.md, before:

---
id: cameras
title: Cameras
---

## Setting Up Camera Inputs

Several inputs can be configured for each camera and the role of each input can be mixed and matched based on your needs. This allows you to use a lower resolution stream for object detection, but create recordings from a higher resolution stream, or vice versa.

Each role can only be assigned to one input per camera. The options for roles are as follows:

| Role       | Description                                                                                          |
| ---------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `detect`   | Main feed for object detection                                                                       |
| `record`   | Saves segments of the video feed based on configuration settings. [docs](/configuration/record)      |
| `restream` | Broadcast as RTSP feed and use the full res stream for live view. [docs](/configuration/restream)    |
| `rtmp`     | Deprecated: Broadcast as an RTMP feed for other services to consume. [docs](/configuration/restream) |

```yaml
mqtt:
  host: mqtt.server.com
cameras:
  back:
    ffmpeg:
      inputs:
        - path: rtsp://viewer:{FRIGATE_RTSP_PASSWORD}@10.0.10.10:554/cam/realmonitor?channel=1&subtype=2
          roles:
            - detect
            - rtmp
        - path: rtsp://viewer:{FRIGATE_RTSP_PASSWORD}@10.0.10.10:554/live
          roles:
            - record
    detect:
      width: 1280
      height: 720
```

Additional cameras are simply added to the config under the `cameras` entry.

```yaml
mqtt: ...
cameras:
  back: ...
  front: ...
  side: ...
```

For camera model specific settings check the [camera specific](/configuration/camera_specific) infos.

Commit message:

Allow cameras to be disabled in config (#4162)
* add option enabled for each camera in config

* Simplified If-block and removed wrong Optional

* Update Docs enabling/disabling camera in config

* correct format for option

* Disabling Camera for processes, no config changes

* Describe effects of disabled cam in documentation

* change if-logic, obsolete copy, info disabled cam

* changed color to white, added top padding in disabled camera info

* changed indentation

docs/docs/configuration/cameras.md, after:

---
id: cameras
title: Cameras
---

## Setting Up Camera Inputs

Several inputs can be configured for each camera and the role of each input can be mixed and matched based on your needs. This allows you to use a lower resolution stream for object detection, but create recordings from a higher resolution stream, or vice versa.

A camera is enabled by default but can be temporarily disabled by using `enabled: False`. Existing events and recordings can still be accessed. Live streams, recording and detecting are not working. Camera specific configurations will be used.

Each role can only be assigned to one input per camera. The options for roles are as follows:

| Role       | Description                                                                                          |
| ---------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `detect`   | Main feed for object detection                                                                       |
| `record`   | Saves segments of the video feed based on configuration settings. [docs](/configuration/record)      |
| `restream` | Broadcast as RTSP feed and use the full res stream for live view. [docs](/configuration/restream)    |
| `rtmp`     | Deprecated: Broadcast as an RTMP feed for other services to consume. [docs](/configuration/restream) |

```yaml
mqtt:
  host: mqtt.server.com
cameras:
  back:
    enabled: True
    ffmpeg:
      inputs:
        - path: rtsp://viewer:{FRIGATE_RTSP_PASSWORD}@10.0.10.10:554/cam/realmonitor?channel=1&subtype=2
          roles:
            - detect
            - rtmp
        - path: rtsp://viewer:{FRIGATE_RTSP_PASSWORD}@10.0.10.10:554/live
          roles:
            - record
    detect:
      width: 1280
      height: 720
```

Additional cameras are simply added to the config under the `cameras` entry.

```yaml
mqtt: ...
cameras:
  back: ...
  front: ...
  side: ...
```

For camera model specific settings check the [camera specific](/configuration/camera_specific) infos.
