docs/docs/configuration/index.md, before:

---
id: index
title: Configuration
---

HassOS users can manage their configuration directly in the addon Configuration tab. For other installations, the default location for the config file is `/config/config.yml`. This can be overridden with the `CONFIG_FILE` environment variable. Camera specific ffmpeg parameters are documented [here](cameras.md).

It is recommended to start with a minimal configuration and add to it:

```yaml
mqtt:
  host: mqtt.server.com
cameras:
  back:
    ffmpeg:
      inputs:
        - path: rtsp://viewer:{FRIGATE_RTSP_PASSWORD}@10.0.10.10:554/cam/realmonitor?channel=1&subtype=2
          roles:
            - detect
            - rtmp
    width: 1280
    height: 720
    fps: 5
```

## Required

## `mqtt`

```yaml
mqtt:
  # Required: host name
  host: mqtt.server.com
  # Optional: port (default: shown below)
  port: 1883
  # Optional: topic prefix (default: shown below)
  # WARNING: must be unique if you are running multiple instances
  topic_prefix: frigate
  # Optional: client id (default: shown below)
  # WARNING: must be unique if you are running multiple instances
  client_id: frigate
  # Optional: user
  user: mqtt_user
  # Optional: password
  # NOTE: Environment variables that begin with 'FRIGATE_' may be referenced in {}.
  #       eg. password: '{FRIGATE_MQTT_PASSWORD}'
  password: password
  # Optional: interval in seconds for publishing stats (default: shown below)
  stats_interval: 60
```

## `cameras`

Each of your cameras must be configured. The following is the minimum required to register a camera in Frigate. Check the [camera configuration page](cameras.md) for a complete list of options.

```yaml
cameras:
  # Name of your camera
  front_door:
    ffmpeg:
      inputs:
        - path: rtsp://viewer:{FRIGATE_RTSP_PASSWORD}@10.0.10.10:554/cam/realmonitor?channel=1&subtype=2
          roles:
            - detect
            - rtmp
    width: 1280
    height: 720
    fps: 5
```

## Optional

### `clips`

```yaml
clips:
  # Optional: Maximum length of time to retain video during long events. (default: shown below)
  # NOTE: If an object is being tracked for longer than this amount of time, the cache
  #       will begin to expire and the resulting clip will be the last x seconds of the event.
  max_seconds: 300
  # Optional: size of tmpfs mount to create for cache files (default: not set)
  # mount -t tmpfs -o size={tmpfs_cache_size} tmpfs /tmp/cache
  # Notice: If you have mounted a tmpfs volume through docker, this value should not be set in your config
  tmpfs_cache_size: 256m
  # Optional: Retention settings for clips (default: shown below)
  retain:
    # Required: Default retention days (default: shown below)
    default: 10
    # Optional: Per object retention days
    objects:
      person: 15
```

### `ffmpeg`

```yaml
ffmpeg:
  # Optional: global ffmpeg args (default: shown below)
  global_args: -hide_banner -loglevel fatal
  # Optional: global hwaccel args (default: shown below)
  # NOTE: See hardware acceleration docs for your specific device
  hwaccel_args: []
  # Optional: global input args (default: shown below)
  input_args: -avoid_negative_ts make_zero -fflags +genpts+discardcorrupt -rtsp_transport tcp -stimeout 5000000 -use_wallclock_as_timestamps 1
  # Optional: global output args
  output_args:
    # Optional: output args for detect streams (default: shown below)
    detect: -f rawvideo -pix_fmt yuv420p
    # Optional: output args for record streams (default: shown below)
    record: -f segment -segment_time 60 -segment_format mp4 -reset_timestamps 1 -strftime 1 -c copy -an
    # Optional: output args for clips streams (default: shown below)
    clips: -f segment -segment_time 10 -segment_format mp4 -reset_timestamps 1 -strftime 1 -c copy -an
    # Optional: output args for rtmp streams (default: shown below)
    rtmp: -c copy -f flv
```

### `objects`

Can be overridden at the camera level

```yaml
objects:
  # Optional: list of objects to track from labelmap.txt (default: shown below)
  track:
    - person
  # Optional: filters to reduce false positives for specific object types
  filters:
    person:
      # Optional: minimum width*height of the bounding box for the detected object (default: 0)
      min_area: 5000
      # Optional: maximum width*height of the bounding box for the detected object (default: 24000000)
      max_area: 100000
      # Optional: minimum score for the object to initiate tracking (default: shown below)
      min_score: 0.5
      # Optional: minimum decimal percentage for tracked object's computed score to be considered a true positive (default: shown below)
      threshold: 0.7
```

Commit message:

add note about protection mode for tmpfs fixes #658

docs/docs/configuration/index.md, after:

---
id: index
title: Configuration
---

HassOS users can manage their configuration directly in the addon Configuration tab. For other installations, the default location for the config file is `/config/config.yml`. This can be overridden with the `CONFIG_FILE` environment variable. Camera specific ffmpeg parameters are documented [here](cameras.md).

It is recommended to start with a minimal configuration and add to it:

```yaml
mqtt:
  host: mqtt.server.com
cameras:
  back:
    ffmpeg:
      inputs:
        - path: rtsp://viewer:{FRIGATE_RTSP_PASSWORD}@10.0.10.10:554/cam/realmonitor?channel=1&subtype=2
          roles:
            - detect
            - rtmp
    width: 1280
    height: 720
    fps: 5
```

## Required

## `mqtt`

```yaml
mqtt:
  # Required: host name
  host: mqtt.server.com
  # Optional: port (default: shown below)
  port: 1883
  # Optional: topic prefix (default: shown below)
  # WARNING: must be unique if you are running multiple instances
  topic_prefix: frigate
  # Optional: client id (default: shown below)
  # WARNING: must be unique if you are running multiple instances
  client_id: frigate
  # Optional: user
  user: mqtt_user
  # Optional: password
  # NOTE: Environment variables that begin with 'FRIGATE_' may be referenced in {}.
  #       eg. password: '{FRIGATE_MQTT_PASSWORD}'
  password: password
  # Optional: interval in seconds for publishing stats (default: shown below)
  stats_interval: 60
```

## `cameras`

Each of your cameras must be configured. The following is the minimum required to register a camera in Frigate. Check the [camera configuration page](cameras.md) for a complete list of options.

```yaml
cameras:
  # Name of your camera
  front_door:
    ffmpeg:
      inputs:
        - path: rtsp://viewer:{FRIGATE_RTSP_PASSWORD}@10.0.10.10:554/cam/realmonitor?channel=1&subtype=2
          roles:
            - detect
            - rtmp
    width: 1280
    height: 720
    fps: 5
```

## Optional

### `clips`

```yaml
clips:
  # Optional: Maximum length of time to retain video during long events. (default: shown below)
  # NOTE: If an object is being tracked for longer than this amount of time, the cache
  #       will begin to expire and the resulting clip will be the last x seconds of the event.
  max_seconds: 300
  # Optional: size of tmpfs mount to create for cache files (default: not set)
  # mount -t tmpfs -o size={tmpfs_cache_size} tmpfs /tmp/cache
  # NOTICE: Addon users must have Protection mode disabled for the addon when using this setting.
  # Also, if you have mounted a tmpfs volume through docker, this value should not be set in your config.
  tmpfs_cache_size: 256m
  # Optional: Retention settings for clips (default: shown below)
  retain:
    # Required: Default retention days (default: shown below)
    default: 10
    # Optional: Per object retention days
    objects:
      person: 15
```

### `ffmpeg`

```yaml
ffmpeg:
  # Optional: global ffmpeg args (default: shown below)
  global_args: -hide_banner -loglevel fatal
  # Optional: global hwaccel args (default: shown below)
  # NOTE: See hardware acceleration docs for your specific device
  hwaccel_args: []
  # Optional: global input args (default: shown below)
  input_args: -avoid_negative_ts make_zero -fflags +genpts+discardcorrupt -rtsp_transport tcp -stimeout 5000000 -use_wallclock_as_timestamps 1
  # Optional: global output args
  output_args:
    # Optional: output args for detect streams (default: shown below)
    detect: -f rawvideo -pix_fmt yuv420p
    # Optional: output args for record streams (default: shown below)
    record: -f segment -segment_time 60 -segment_format mp4 -reset_timestamps 1 -strftime 1 -c copy -an
    # Optional: output args for clips streams (default: shown below)
    clips: -f segment -segment_time 10 -segment_format mp4 -reset_timestamps 1 -strftime 1 -c copy -an
    # Optional: output args for rtmp streams (default: shown below)
    rtmp: -c copy -f flv
```

### `objects`

Can be overridden at the camera level

```yaml
objects:
  # Optional: list of objects to track from labelmap.txt (default: shown below)
  track:
    - person
  # Optional: filters to reduce false positives for specific object types
  filters:
    person:
      # Optional: minimum width*height of the bounding box for the detected object (default: 0)
      min_area: 5000
      # Optional: maximum width*height of the bounding box for the detected object (default: 24000000)
      max_area: 100000
      # Optional: minimum score for the object to initiate tracking (default: shown below)
      min_score: 0.5
      # Optional: minimum decimal percentage for tracked object's computed score to be considered a true positive (default: shown below)
      threshold: 0.7
```
