docs/docs/configuration/objects.mdx, before:

---
id: objects
title: Default available objects
sidebar_label: Available objects
---

import labels from '../../../labelmap.txt';

By default, Frigate includes the following object models from the Google Coral test data.

<ul>
  {labels.split('\n').map((label) => (
    <li>{label.replace(/^\d+\s+/, '')}</li>
  ))}
</ul>

## Custom Models

Models for both CPU and EdgeTPU (Coral) are bundled in the image. You can use your own models with volume mounts:

- CPU Model: `/cpu_model.tflite`
- EdgeTPU Model: `/edgetpu_model.tflite`
- Labels: `/labelmap.txt`

You also need to update the model width/height in the config if they differ from the defaults.

### Customizing the Labelmap

The labelmap can be customized to your needs. A common reason to do this is to combine multiple object types that are easily confused when you don't need to be as granular such as car/truck. You must retain the same number of labels, but you can change the names. To change:

- Download the [COCO labelmap](https://dl.google.com/coral/canned_models/coco_labels.txt)
- Modify the label names as desired. For example, change `7 truck` to `7 car`
- Mount the new file at `/labelmap.txt` in the container with an additional volume
  ```
  -v ./config/labelmap.txt:/labelmap.txt
  ```

Commit message:

Initial support for YOLOv3-tiny

docs/docs/configuration/objects.mdx, after:

---
id: objects
title: Default available objects
sidebar_label: Available objects
---

import labels from '../../../labelmap.txt';

By default, Frigate includes the following object models from the Google Coral test data.

<ul>
  {labels.split('\n').map((label) => (
    <li>{label.replace(/^\d+\s+/, '')}</li>
  ))}
</ul>

## Custom Models

Models for both CPU and EdgeTPU (Coral) are bundled in the image. You can use your own models with volume mounts:

- CPU Model: `/cpu_model.tflite`
- EdgeTPU Model: `/edgetpu_model.tflite`
- Labels: `/labelmap.txt`

You also need to update the model width/height in the config if they differ from the defaults.

You can also try improving the speed using a YOLOv3-tiny model, quantized to work on the edge TPU.

A compiled model exists [here](https://github.com/guichristmann/edge-tpu-tiny-yolo/tree/master/models)

Add it as a volume mount in your docker-compose file:
```yaml
    volumes:
      - /path/to/quant_coco-tiny-v3-relu_edgetpu.tflite:/edgetpu_model.tflite
```

And then set the configuration for the model in config.yml:

```yaml
model:
  # Required: height of the trained model
  height: 416
  # Required: width of the trained model
  width: 416
  # Required: type of model (ssd or yolo)
  model_type: 'yolo'
  # Required: path of label map
  label_path: '/labelmap.txt'
  # Optional: (but required for yolo) - anchors, comma separated
  anchors:  '10,14,  23,27,  37,58,  81,82,  135,169,  344,319'
```

### Customizing the Labelmap

The labelmap can be customized to your needs. A common reason to do this is to combine multiple object types that are easily confused when you don't need to be as granular such as car/truck. You must retain the same number of labels, but you can change the names. To change:

- Download the [COCO labelmap](https://dl.google.com/coral/canned_models/coco_labels.txt)
- Modify the label names as desired. For example, change `7 truck` to `7 car`
- Mount the new file at `/labelmap.txt` in the container with an additional volume
  ```
  -v ./config/labelmap.txt:/labelmap.txt
  ```
